there are different types of materials
that we can use for the
worktops of our kitchens more
commonly called tops but we will discover
the substantial differences
together in this video
[Music]
welcome and welcome back I'm Marcello
and I've been helping families for over twenty years
to furnish the kitchen and home of their
dreams, if you have to furnish your new home
or are simply thinking of
renovating the one you have, then
subscribe to the channel and activate the
bell to receive
useful advice every week in time
to learn more about your needs
or  to have a personalized project
you will find all the info in the descriptions as
anticipated so today we are talking about
kitchen worktops the most
used are four today I will only talk to you
about these because there are
many the most used are the
hpl laminate the quartz agglomerate  and
ceramics, the first one I want
to talk to you about is laminate.
Laminate is made of
wood particles and then covered with a foil
which is basically layers of
overlapping paper sheets which
are then finished with a final layer of
melamine resin to increase the  the
resistance is a material that is very
resistant to abrasion, very
versatile because it can
really be used in any color because
there are different finishes that can be
used and it is also less expensive. the
second material is the capi l which
is aesthetically practically identical and
laminate because the layer  final in the
end is always a lamination while
internally it is built by taking
sheets of tissue paper immersing them
in the resin extended one above the other
then they are pressed at high pressure
in fact hpl would be height at scream
mi nate then laminated at high
pressure
then once pressed at  high
pressure is covered with the
foil identical to that of the laminate
so it always has a resistance
to abrasion and always very resistant,
in addition to the laminate compared to the laminate and
also resistant to water so it is true
that laminates also have excellent
resistance  malaka pl is really waterproof to water,
we could take a
small piece of it, throw it in a bucket of water,
leave it there for a month and take it out
identical to how we put it the month
before, whereas with laminate this
wouldn't happen because there is
wood anyway  sooner or later it
would swell, in short, now let's go and see
the quartz agglomerate, the
quartz agglomerate, on the other hand, is a material that is
created using quartz powders
of various grains, therefore of various
sizes, these powders are
compacted together with resins and they
are  built slabs and
thanks to these slabs we are then able to
build the kitchen worktops,
let's say that together with ceramic it is the
most used material to be
mistreated, whereas ceramic is
built using a
clay-based material like all ceramics
which is then  fired at a very high
temperature precisely to create this
crystallized layer which gives it its
almost infinite resistance it is a
truly excellent material ceramic for
kitchens is one of the absolute best materials
that can be used but
let's do some tests on some
samples we will mistreat them  a little and let's see
what happens well as you can see
I prepared 4p and small pieces of
different surfaces precisely from the materials I
told you about the first eliminated the second
is the capi l this is the ceramic while
this is the quartz therefore the
quartz agglomerate  I'm going to do two tests because it
's useless to do the water test
because I've already told you that laminate is
the only one that would have problems because
since it is made of
wood particles inside, these would certainly
swell while the others have
different materials throughout.  inside
they are not afraid of water so it is also
useless to do this test but we will do
two resistance tests, one of resistance with a
knife because it happens to be used in the
kitchen normally and the other we will do a
test with a tip screwdriver to
see what can happen if  it falls on
something sharp, so let's
try it immediately with the knife,
first of all let's
simulate, let's say, cutting a
tomato which doesn't create any problems either
for the Minato
or for the HP L and well let's
say that
it's natural for the ceramic and the quartz agglomerate that it
can't have  cause problems, let's try
to be a little more
aggressive instead, let's see that it hasn't undermined, there are
some marks but nothing very
serious, let's say with the aca pl the same
thing because as I told you before
the outside is the same with the ceramic you
can see some marks but  in reality
they then disappear because in reality it doesn't
get ruined and the same thing should
happen
with the quartz agglomerate in fact you can
also see some small marks but
they disappear precisely because they are not
real marks so the material doesn't really get ruined
now let's go and get  the screwdriver and
let's see what happens leaving it more or
less from this distance this is a little
more realistic because I could have applied
different pressures with the knife I
leave this at the same height so it doesn't
run away let's
try first with laminate
taken
here I don't know if you can see it but a  a small hole was
made and therefore examined it did not
resist the screwdriver test
let's try with the aca pl which has the
same finish so
the lamination is the same but the
material inside is much harder
so it could resist better in
fact as I imagined yes  it's slightly
scratched but very little compared to what
happened to Minato it's really
almost nothing
let's try on the ceramic
it was ceramic nothing she didn't even
notice it
we find on the quartz
it's the quartz in fact it was ruined two marks
ni for the rebound obviously
two  they created themselves the victory therefore goes
to the ceramic worktop which is the only one that
has withstood all the tests one hundred percent
but there is one last thing
I want to tell you about the worktop which
will certainly be very interesting but
I'll say soon if
you liked the video up to this point, please
give a like and subscribe to the channel
but above all leave your questions in the comments but
now let's look at c at the
end of the video the last thing I want to
tell you about worktops
in  in reality it concerns the backrest and therefore
the part behind the worktop
which can be a simple backsplash and
therefore low or a
complete backrest reaching even up to the
height of the wall units. Here is a
very important thing and that if we have a
gas hob as in  in this case I
strongly advise you against making the
rear panel in laminate or hpl because
they are two materials which, although resistant
to many things, are certainly not
flame resistant so there is always
the risk that over
time  it can blacken, it doesn't
catch fire, but it becomes
ugly anyway because it would wear out all
around the hob and
it would become black, in short, it's not nice to
look at and with this today too it's really
all, see you in the next video
[Music]